# Correlates_and_predictors_of_suicidal_ideation_in_adolescence. 
1. The primary goal of this study was to examine how psychological, environmental, and sociodemographic variables and exploratory brain-based variables (graph metrics computed across the whole brain) operate in concert to predict the subsequent severity of SI we used machine learning (ML) methods.   
3. The resting-state-fMRI (rs-fMRI) data we used to compute graph metrics are derived from preprocessing performed using fMRIPrep 20.2.1 (Esteban et al., 2019).   
4. For postprocessing, the first 6 frames were discarded to allow the MR signal to achieve T1 equilibrium. We then performed despiking using AFNI’s 3dDespike, which is an alternative to temporal censoring to identify signal outliers and interpolates over outliers (Ciric et al., 2018). We then performed simultaneous nuisance regression and bandpass filtering (Hallquist, Hwang, & Luna, 2013) with AFNI’s 3dTproject which has been shown to optimally reduce nuisance variation from the MR timeseries. Our nuisance regressors included 24 motion estimates (6 rigid-body moition parameters plus their first temporal derivatives and quadratic terms), mean WM signal, mean CSF signal, and each of these tissue signals’ temporal derivatives and quadratic terms, resulting in a total of 32 regressors. Frequency bands .008-.1 Hz were used for bandpass filtering (Marek et al., 2019).   
5. All graph metrics were calculated based on each participant’s weighted correlation matrices using GraphVar version 2.02 (Kruschwitz, List, Waller, Rubinov, & Walter, 2015), which uses functions from the Brain Connectivity Toolbox (BCT; Rubinov & Sporns, 2010). We calculated five local graph metrics per node, yielding 1250 graph-based predictors: local efficiency, eigenvector centrality, nodal degree, within-module z-score, and participation coefficient.   
6. For all subsequent analyses including: computing density threshold for each graph metric (scripts 1-6), defining response variable (SI severity) distribution (script 8), wrangling covariate data (scripts 9a-9b - not posted here due to identifying information), performing nested-cv (for this analysis, k=N for LOOCV) (scripts 10*).  
